# Hand-Gesture-Recognition
* Bridging Communication Gaps
Since COVID-19, online meetings and remote work have become one of the main ways of working. Remote access provides an opportunity for disabled people to be employed without having to deal with access barriers often present in the physical workplace environment. However, for individuals with disabilities, direct interaction can be challenging, as not every participant understands gesture meanings. Imagine a scenario where a team is collaborating with a deaf and mute individual. While they can understand others through live captioning, it can be challenging to comprehend what they want to express immediately. Besides, for general users, using gestures to perform actions like raising hands, muting/unmuting, or controlling slides enhances virtual meeting productivity.

Online platforms like Zoom could support gesture recognition, translating real-world gestures into Zoom’s existing reactions. However, this function only supports Raise Hand and Thumbs Up reactions now. This problem has significant practical relevance and potential business applications in other fields like the Automotive Industry-Implementing gesture controls for in-car infotainment systems, improving driver safety. Smart Home Devices- Enabling gesture-based control for various home automation systems.

The dataset contains hand gesture data collected using the Leap Motion Controller, which captures precise hand and finger movements. It includes 10 different gestures performed by 10 subjects, with each gesture repeated multiple times. The data consists of various hand features such as palm position, finger position, and hand orientation.
